Role:
You are an expert Nutritionist. Founder of Nutrifix. You will assess client's Nutritional needs, health goals, current physical status and create Nutritional plan according to them.

Task:
Your primary Responsibility includes:                                                              
Handle Client's Information form which consists their anthropometric, biochemical, clinical and dietary assessment questionnaire.  
One on one consultation call for 45 mins in the scheduled time.
During consultation call explain the clear process while in the program. 
Create Nutritional Meal plan and send to clients according to their health goals and dietary patterns.

Context:
The client is a 35-year-old female from Tamil Nadu,
Weight: 75 kg, Height: 160 cm,
Physical activity: Light (sedentary desk job, 2 walks/week)
Goal: Lose 8 kg in 3 months, improve energy, reduce bloating
Dietary preference: Vegetarian, Tamil Nadu cuisine, open to eggs
Limiting factors: Time constraints in mornings, prefers simple, home-cooked meals
Medical notes: Mild PCOS, occasional acidity
Plan should be:
Culturally appropriate
Calorie-controlled (1200–1400 kcal/day)
Balanced in macronutrients
Emphasize low-GI, anti-inflammatory, gut-friendly foods

Few Shots:
Example:
🍽️ Breakfast (8:30 AM):  
- 2 small thin ragi dosa + mint chutney + 1 boiled egg  
- Herbal tea (no sugar)

🥗 Mid-Morning (11:00 AM):  
- 1 guava or orange + 4 soaked almonds  

🍛 Lunch (1:00 PM):  
- 1 cup red rice + 1 cup kootu (with bottle gourd & moong dal)  
- 1/2 cup cabbage poriyal + 1 tsp ghee  

☕ Evening Snack (4:30 PM):  
- Sundal (boiled chana) + green tea  

🌙 Dinner (7:00 PM):  
- 1 bowl millet pongal + cucumber salad  
- 1 tsp flaxseed powder in warm water  

💧 Hydration: Minimum 2.5L water/day  

 

Report/Tone:
Deliver in a professional, warm, supportive tone.

Encourage consistency and explain the why behind each choice (e.g., "Ragi keeps you fuller longer and balances blood sugar — great for PCOS.")

Use plain language.

Include 1 flexible treat meal per week to support sustainability.

Add a brief "Why This Plan Works" summary at the end.

A.BASIC PROMPT TEMPLATES

1. General Inquiry:
"Explain Importance of Weight Loss in simple terms. 

2. Summarization:
"Summarize the following text in 5 bullet points:."
Weight Loss can be achieved by following approaches like diet, physical activity, good sleep, water intake and stress management. When we put our body into negative energy balance weight loss can be easily achieved. While in the process of loosing weight main focus should be based  eating healthy wholesome foods. Avoid processed and fried foods. Include more protein from eggs, dals, lean meats and fibers.

3. Paraphrasing
"Rewrite this sentence in your own words:."
"Eating a balanced diet is important for maintaining good health".

4. Definition Request
"What is the meaning of Calorie Deficit."

5. Comparison 
"Compare sugar and jaggery based on benefits for weight loss."

B. Persona Based Prompt Templates

6. Role +Explanation

"You are a Dietitian. Explain portion control to busy working mom."

7. Style Mimicry
"Write like Dt.Dharini Krishnan: Importance of healthy eating."

8. Professional Writing
"You are a clinical Nutritionist. Write a client progress report about weight loss  over 4 weeks."

C.Few Shot Prompt Templates
9. Classify Statement:
"Ragi is rich in calcium and good for bones." = Nutrition Fact
"Always drink water before meals to reduce appetite." = Wellness Tip
"Too much sugar causes insulin spikes and weight gain." = Health Warning
"Millets are good for diabetic people". = ?

10. Translate the following sentences into Tamil:
"Drink more water every day." = "தினமும் அதிகமாக தண்ணீர் குடிக்கவும்."
"Eat more vegetables and fruits." = "மிகுந்த காய்கறிகள் மற்றும் பழங்களைச் சாப்பிடுங்கள்."
"Exercise regularly." = ?

or 

"Write like Clinical Nutritionist. Why Balanced Nutrition is important".

11.  Question Answering Template
"Answer these questions:."
How many Macro Nutrients are there? =3
Which food is rich in calcium? = Ragi
Which Food is rich in vitamin-c?

D. Chain of Thought(CoT) Templates
12. Step by Step Reasoning
"Let's think step by step. Why particular client not loosing weight?. If she looses 2 kg in two months how many months it take to reduce weight further 6 kgs."

13. Math Problem Solving
"Solve this math problem by showing your work. If a client keeps on drinking 2-5 litres of water each day, how much water will they drink in a week."

14. Solve this logical puzzle. 
"You are a Clinical Nutritionist. Solve this nutrition-related puzzle. Show your reasoning process."
"A patient needs exactly 60g of protein per day. She consumes 1 glass of milk (8g protein), 2 boiled eggs (12g total), 1 cup dal (9g), and 1 cup curd (6g). How many grams of paneer (which gives 18g protein per 100g) should she eat to meet her 60g protein goal for the day."

E. Instruction Tuning /Format Control

15.Output Formatting
"Summarize the article below in exactly 3 bullet points."
"The Mediterranean diet emphasizes vegetables, fruits, legumes, whole grains, nuts, and olive oil. It limits red meat, processed foods, and added sugars. Studies show it can reduce the risk of heart disease, diabetes, and improve brain health."

16. Create a table comparing ragi ,oats, and white rice based on fiber content, glycemic index and suitability for diabetes.

17. Email writing
"Write a professional email to client regarding one on one 45 mins consultation call. Use a formal tone."

F. Contextual Prompts

18. Tailored Explanation
"Explain calorie deficit to a 35 year old women who knows simple nutrition."

19.Industry Specific Context
"As a Clinical Nutritionist, explain how AI Powered diet apps impacts personalised Nutrition plans."

G.Creative Writing Prompts.

20."Write a short story about Menaka 46 year old woman who wants to loose her weight and reduce her arthritis pain but faces but struggles with less results in numbers due to inflammation".

21.Poem Writing
"Write a poem in rhyme scheme abab about healing."

22.Dialogue Writing
"Write a realistic dialogue between Menaka (a 46-year-old woman with arthritis) and Aysha (her Clinical Nutritionist) discussing slow weight loss and inflammation."

H. Code and Technical Prompts
23."Write a Python function that takes a list of calorie values and returns the total."

24. Debugging help. Here is some code. Fix and find the error:
"def calculate_bmi(weight, height):
    bmi = weight / height ** 2
    return bmi

print("Your BMI is: " + calculate_bmi(70, 1.75))."

25. API Documentation
"Explain how to use the Nutrition facts API with an example request and response."

I. Marketing and Business Prompts
26. Ad Copy Writing
"Write a compelling ad for Nutrifix's 100day Weight Loss Program targetting women aged from 24 to 50."

27. Product Description
"Write a persuasive product description for Nutrifix's Healthmix."

28. Social Media Post
"Create a social media post promoting Nutrifix 100 day weight loss program designed exclusively for women above 25." 

J. Customer Support and service prompts
29. Response to complaint
"Respond professionally to this customer complaint. "I ordered your Health Mix last week, but the packet arrived damaged and some powder had leaked. Very disappointed!"

30. FAQ Generator
"Generate 5 common FAQs and answers for Nutrifix's 100day weight Loss Program."

K. Education and Tutoring Prompts

31. Lesson0 Plan Creation
"Create a lesson plan for teaching Basics of healthy Eating to High school students 9Grade 9-10)."

32. Quiz Generation
"Generate a 5 question quiz about Micronutrients."

33. Explain how to solve this Science problem: 
"Explain why sugar gives quick energy in the body."

L.Advanced Framework- Based Templates

34. React Framework
"Thought:[model thinks about what to do next]
Action :[Model takes action]
Observation :[result of the action
Answer : [Final Answer]
stimulate agent behavior manually"

Thought: I need to consider internal factors like inflammation, not just diet quantity.  
Action: Review symptoms like joint pain, fatigue, and any signs of water retention.  
Observation: Client shows signs of high inflammation, which can mask weight loss progress.  
Answer: The client is healing internally; inflammation is slowing visible weight loss. Focus should remain on consistency and inflammation-reduction strategies.

35. Tree of Thought(ToT)
"Generate 3 possible solutions to:"
"Client is losing weight very slowly despite following the diet plan consistently for 4 weeks." Evaluate each and choose the best one.

36. Self - Consistence Prompting
"Solve the following question in 3 different ways and pick the most consistent answer:How many calories are in a meal that contains 25g of carbs, 10g of protein, and 5g of fat?."

37. Prompt Refinement.
"Improve this prompt: Create a diet plan.
Make it clear, more specific, and structured."


38. Prompt Grading Rubric
"Explain calories to a 14 year old using South Indian Food examples"
Rate this output based on the following criteria (1-5):"Calories are units of energy. Your body uses them like fuel. For example, a banana gives you about 100 calories. A dosa gives about 150–200. If you eat too many, the body stores the extra as fat."
Relevance:
Accuracy :
Clarity:
Fluency:
Creativity:
Final Score:


39. Prompt Iteration Challenge
"Take this weak prompt :"Give me meal plan."
"Now rewrite it 3 times to improve clarity and effectiveness."

N. Real World Application Prompts
40. Job Posting Creation
Write a job posting for Assistant Nutritionist at Nutrifix. Include responsibilities, requirements and benefits."

41. Resume Summary Builder
"Create a professional summary for a resume based on the following details:."
Experience: 10+ years as a Clinical Nutritionist, founder of Nutrifix
Skills: Therapeutic meal planning, client coaching, functional nutrition, weight loss for women 35+, team leadership, product development
Achievements: Helped 1000+ clients transform health, launched Ambaa food product line, featured in regional health talks.

42. Business Proposal
Write a proposal for Nutrifix's 100day weight management program to 35 year old man. Include objectives, methodology and benefits.

O. Miscellaneous Useful Templates.

43. Opinion Writing
Write an opinion piece on cheat meal day. Use persuasive arguments and examples. 

44. Debate Preparation
Prepare arguments for both sides of the debate : "Is soya is good for hormonal health"

45. Travel Planning
Plan a 5 day trip to Munnar for family traveler. Include activities, budget and tips.

46. Book/Movie Review
Writ a review of Ikigai. Include plot summary,strengths, weakness and recommendation.

47. Personal Development
"Give me actionable advice on how to get 10 clients per month, including daily habits and mindset shifts".

P. Prompt Chaining Examples

48. Multi step Research Task,0
Step 1:
"Find out the top 5 causes of excess protein"
Step 2 :
"Based on those causes, suggest 5 practical solutions individuals can adopt".

49. Idea to execution
Step 1 : 
"Generate 5 business ideas for health mix products".
Step 2:
"Pick one idea and create marketing strategy for it". 
Q. Prompt Template Generator 

50. Universal Prompt Bulider [R+T+C+E+F]
"You are a clinical Nutritionist . Create a 2 weeks Nutrional meal plan for 46 years old with arthritis. Include Morning drink, breakfast , MIdmorning Snacks, lunch, evening snacks and dinner. Format as table".




















 





























































